so a peacock
welcome to hot Thai kitchen today we are
going to make green curry fried rice I
know like it's like two really good
dishes rolled into one and it is as good
as it sounds so this dish in Thai is
called Khao pad
Genki one cow pad is fried rice and
Genki r1 is the name for for the curry
it's not super common but I've seen it
done and so it's not like my original
idea I wish it was super good and it's
going to be really quick really easy
it's a great dish if you've got just
sort of curry paste sitting in the
fridge and you don't know what else to
do with it it's a great weeknight dinner
so let's take a look at our ingredients
so the first chunk of the ingredient is
going to look very much like a green
curry ingredient I've got some green
curry paste this one's just store-bought
okay and you can use more or less I'm
using two tablespoons the more you use
the spicier it will be I've got a little
bit of sugar to cut the salt I've got
some fish sauce and the fish sauce it is
going to depend how salty your curry
paste it I say this every time you cook
with curry paste with store-bought curry
paste always always leave room for
adjustment for your fish sauce because
sometimes it's very salty and you don't
need to add any and sometimes just need
to add a little bit more okay and then
we've got some coconut milk just to give
it some creaminess and lubrication we've
got some Thai basil and we've got some
really fine julienned kaffir lime leaves
right here and that's going to be the
citrusy component that's going to
brighten everything up okay
so that's everything that goes into the
regular green curry sugar you can also
use palm sugar you want it too so moving
on vegetable so vegetables here I've got
one cup of really whatever vegetables
you want like it changes every time I
make it depending on what I have I've
got some carrots some bell peppers some
onion and some guy lan or chinese
broccoli and I sliced the stems thinly
in the leaves I just kind of shift or
not it and so you can use peas would be
really great long beans cut up would be
really good as long as there's 30 there
going to wilt and look funny and
anything that you would like in a fried
rice you could totally do that just a
combined total volume of one cup is
perfect okay so that's that and then our
protein I've got I'm using chicken
breasts here you can use pork beef tofu
whatever you can even do eggs if you
wanted to so I cut this into small
pieces you want the pieces of the
chicken to comfortably fit onto your
spoon along with the rice so don't do a
big hunk and piece of chicken that's
just it's not a practical fried rice
size so I'm just going to marinate it in
my soy sauce just a teaspoon or so all
the details of the recipe is on my
website if you want measurements and
everything that's all there so just some
soy sauce and I'm also going to put a
little bit of vegetable oil I think it
helps keep things moist and also when
you add it to the pan it helps the
chicken spread easier so they're not you
know sticking together into a clump so
we're going to let that go you can do
this ahead of time but what I usually do
is I do this before I start cutting my
vegetables and by the time I'm ready to
cook then it'll be ready to go so
there's that and then finally the rice
of course the rice so I've got some 300
grams of rice here in my pineapple fried
rice episode I talked about five tips
for cooking rice specifically for fried
rice if you've got leftover rice that's
great in this dish it's particularly
important that your rice was not cooked
with too much water and it's not too
soft because there is coconut milk so
our fried rice sauce is going to be a
little bit wetter than normal so you
know something to think about if the
rice is already on the verge of being
soft it might get a little mushy so you
can also just put it in the fridge and
let it dry out a little bit and then the
coconut milk will rehydrate it perfectly
so that's all our ingredients let's get
cooking all right we're ready to cook
I've got my wok here I'm going to heat
it on just sort of medium heat when you
saute curry paste you do not want to
start it in too hot of a pan because you
can burn the curry paste instantly if
you think about it curry paste is just
herbs that I'm tiny tiny pieces so they
can burn easily so just a little bit of
vegetable oil in there I'm going to go
in with my curry paste I'm not going to
wait for the oil to heat up because it's
okay for the curry paste to slowly heat
it's an easier heat control for me so
there's my first time cooking in a wok
with this new portable stove that I've
got so we very interested to see how it
goes
might be a little hard for me to sort of
touch the heat setting
we'll see okay so I've got that sauteing
cook that just for wow it's pretty
powerful just for a few minutes just to
get all the earths hooked up and then
I'm gonna go in with the coconut milk
and that's it calm it down a little oh
wow Chili's oh by the way did I tell you
this is just spicy it is some sugar my
fish sauce I'm starting with just a
teaspoon I'm going to cook that I'm
going to reduce the curry paste down a
little bit so you don't have too much
liquid something like this is looking
good because if you got too much liquid
you add the rice and the rice is gonna
get too wet too mushy so I'm gonna now
add my chicken let the chicken cook
briefly my cameraman is having a cuffing
situation the chili is pretty strong I'm
gonna go in with my vegetables all my
vegetables
Micra see your lime leaves
and cook that up just until the chickens
about 70% done so it's all about timing
in this dish it's all about timing yeah
so a lot of people think when you're
stir frying in a wok the heat needs to
be extremely high that's not always the
case in some cases like patsy you and
things like that yes you want the heat
to be as high as you can go but for some
things like this when you're involving
curry paste and coconut milk and things
that can burn you do not necessarily
want to cook it on high heat okay so my
chicken is mostly done got a little bit
to go but it's perfect timing to add our
rice because then when the rice is done
the chicken will be perfectly done
smells so good so at this point if you
have if you're proving this for the
first time you want to give it a taste
and then adjust your saltiness with more
fish sauce and you can add a little bit
sugar I've done this before so I know
that I need a teaspoon and that should
do it
but if it's your first time you
definitely want to give it a taste at
this point okay and that's it we're done
and now all we have to do oh I forgot my
sight hazel I knew it was it felt a
little strange Thai basil you want to
turn off your heat first then you toss
in the Thai basil because you don't want
to cook the Thai basil for too long in
too intense of the heat or they'll turn
black and not very nice looking mmm oh
that smells good okay let's go plate it
up
so this SERPs about to perfect amount
for a couple there you go look how nice
it looks so when you choose vegetables
you want to make sure you've got you
know all the good colors in there you
want have some red some green wipe the
edges of my plate a little okay it's
eating time ooh I can smell the spice
this is gonna be spicy mmm oh yeah
that's good if you need a kick in the
butt if you've been eating bland food
and you're just sick of bland food this
is it this is it right here it's gonna
like brighten up your world it's spicy
it's got lots of herbs you can really
taste the kaffir lime leaves on the end
the base of coming through and it's so
easy I mean that was one of the easiest
things I've ever made on how to hide
kitchen so please do give it a try it
doesn't have to be green curry you can
try it with red curry or Penang Korea
whatever you've got on hand
and when you try it out and let me know
how it goes from your photo I love
hearing from you if you enjoy the show
please click to subscribe so I can
continue making these recipes for you
and I will see you next time for your
next delicious time